Chapter 1: Expressions, Equations, and Functions
====================================================

This is the review chapter. 

----

Lesson 1: Variables and Expressions
-------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms

* An **algebraic expression** consists of sums and/or products of numbers are variables
* A **variable** is a symbol used to represent unknown values.
* A **term** is a number, variable, or a product/quotient between a variable and/or a number.
* **Factor** time **factor** equals **product**.
* The term **power** refers to exponents. Example: :math:`x^5`

.. rubric:: Verbal expression to algebraic expression


Lets say we want to covert *x minis five* into an equation. *x minis five* is the same as *five fewer than x*. Both are the same as :math:`x-5`.

.. rubric:: Algebraic expression to Verbal expression


Lets say we want to covert :math:`x-5` into an equation. The easy way is *five minis x*. The more complicated way is *take away 5 from x*

Lesson 2: Order of Operations
-------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms


* To **evaluate** an expression is to solve or find the value of the expression.
* **PEMDAS** stands for parentheses, exponents, multiplication and division, and addiction and subtraction. This is the order of operations.

.. note:: 

    When it comes to multiplication and division it is done left to right. The same thing is for addiction and subtraction.

.. rubric:: Evaluate an expression

To evaluate an algebraic expression, replace the variables with their values. For example, if we wanted to find :math:`3x^2+(2y+z^3)` and :math:`y=5, x=4, z=3`, we could substitute the variables in our equation. :math:`3x^2+(2y+z^3)` would now look like: :math:`3 \cdot 4^2+(2 \cdot 5+3^3)`. Using the order of operations we can solve. 


Lesson 3: Properties of Numbers
-------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms

* **Equivalent expressions** are two or more expressions that represent the same number. For example, :math:`7x+2x` is equivalent to :math:`9x`. Therefore, they are equivalent expressions.
* The **Reflexive Property** is any quantity equal to itself. For example, :math:`a=a` or :math:`4=4`.
* The **Symmetric Property** is if one quantity equals a second quantity and the second quantity equals the first quantity. For example, if :math:`x=y` then :math:`y=x`.
* The **Transitive Property** is if one quantity equals a second quantity and the second quantity equals a third quantity, then the first quantity equals the third quantity. For example, if :math:`a=b` and :math:`b=c` then :math:`a=c`.
*  The **Substitution Property** is a quantity that can be substituted with its equal. For example, if :math:`n=11` then :math:`10n=10 \cdot 11`.
* **Additive Identity** is where a number plus 0 is still that number. 
* **Additive Inverse** is where the sum of a number and its opposite is 0.
* **Multiplicative Identity** is when the product of a number and 1 is still the number. For example, :math:`x \cdot 1=x`
* **Multiplicative Property of Zero** is when the product of any number and zero is always zero. For example, :math:`x \cdot 0=0`.
* **Multiplicative Inverse** is when the product of a number and the inverse of the number is 1. For example, :math:`\frac{1}{2} \cdot 2 = \frac{2}{2} = 1`.
* The **Commutative property of addition** is when the order of the numbers does not change the sum. For example, :math:`1+3=3+1`.
* The **Associative Property** is where the order of adding does not change the sum. For example, :math:`1+(5+3)=3+(5+1)`.

Lesson 4: The Distributive Property
-------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms

* The **Distributive Property** is when you break down an equation to make it easier to multiply. For example, :math:`7(1+5+7)` can be written as :math:`7 \cdot 1+7 \cdot 5 + 7 \cdot 7`.

.. rubric:: Mental Math

We can use the Distributive Property to do mental math. For example we can find the product of :math:`45 \cdot 4` by changing it to :math:`4(40 - 5)`. We then can use the Distributive Property to solve.

.. rubric:: With Variables

We can use the Distributive Property to solve an equation like this: :math:`3a = 2(a+8)` we could use the Distributive Property to make it like this: :math:`3a = 2a+16` then :math:`a=16`. As you can see, the Distributive Property is very useful.


Lesson 5: Equations
-------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms

* An **Open Sentence** does not have an equal sign. For example, :math:`6x+9y`.
* An **Equations** has an equal sign. For example, :math:`6x+9y=56`.
* A **set** is a collection of numbers and objects. These objects are called **elements**.
* A **replacement set** is a set to replace the variables.
* A **solution set** is the set of elements from the replacement set that make an open sentence true.

.. rubric:: Use a replacement set

We can try to replace the variables with many numbers. The numbers that work are added to the solution set.


Lesson 6: Relations
-------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms

* An **ordered pair** is a set of numbers, or coordinates, written in the form (x, y).
* The x-value, called the **x-coordinate**, represents the horizontal placement of the point.
* The y-value, called the **y-coordinate**, represents the vertical placement of the point.
* A set of ordered pairs is called a **relation**.
* A **mapping** shows how the ordered pairs are paired.
* A **domain** is x
* A **range** is y

Lesson 7: Functions
-------------------------------------

* A **function** has exactly one output for every input. Often written with *f(x)*

.. rubric:: Find Functions

One way to check if something is a function is to check if there is only one output (range) for every input (domain). Another way to check if something is a function is to use the vertical line test. This is if you put a vertical line anywhere on a graphed function. If the line only touches the graphed function once, it is a function.

Lesson 8: Interpreting Graphs of Functions
---------------------------------------------------------

.. rubric:: Lesson Terms

* An **intercept** is where a line intercepts an axis.
* The **y-intercept** is where the line intercepts the y-axis.
* The **x-intercept** is where the line intercepts the x-axis.
* **Positive** parts of a line is when it is above the x-axis
* **Negative** parts of a line is when it is below the x-axis

.. rubric:: Liner or Nonlinear Lines

If a line is curved then the line is nonlinear. If the line is not curved then the line is linear.

